Management Apps:

Database App.
<-> ODBC
Web browser <-> ActiveX Controls
C/C++ APPS
(All connect to) -> WINDOWS MANAGEMENT API
COM / DCOM Interface

WMI infrastructure:

CIM repository <-> CIM Object Manager (CIMOM)

Providers:
SNMP Provider -> SNMP objects
Win32 Provider -> Win32 objects
Registry Provider -> Registry objects


WINMGMT -> Starts when the first management application or script makes a call to
connect to a WMI namespace.

WMI Consumers: WMI consumers and management applications, or scripts, interact with WMI
infrastructure by calling the WMI API (COM / DCOM). They can perform: i) querying ii)
enumerating data iii) Running provider methods etc.

WMI Infrastructure:
WMIPRVSE.EXE -> This is the provider host for WMI
WMI Infrastructure: It consists of various components.
1. WMI Core (CIM Object Manager): It is component of WBEM system, it manages CIM
objects, facilitates interaction between WBEM Client Applications; Manages CIM
repository; Performs security checks to authenticate users for WBEM Clients.
2. WMI Repository (CIM Repository): It is a language independent database of the
namespace, classes, objects instances within an enterprise environment, which are
stored in a static form.

3. COM (Component Object Model): It is a platform independent, distributed,
object-oriented system that creates a binary software components which can interact.
4. DCOM (Distributed Component Object Model): It is extension of COM, which helps
locate or interact with components/objects located on a different system, remote
computer or even on the internet.


Svchost.exe -> It is implemented as a service process within a shared service host
which can contain the WMI service (winmgmt)


WMI Provider:WMI Providers are intermediary between WMI Service & objects. WMI Providers starts as
a service name. WMIPRVSE.exe whenever a query is made.
This acts as a container and provides the requested information to the application/query.
Each time a query is made from a different source, a separate service is started as WMIPRVSE.
The default startup type of WMI service is Automatic.
WMI service depends on RPC.
