WMI (Windows Management Instrumentation)
Q: what is WMI?

Ans: WMI is a set of extentions to the windows driver model which provides an operating
system interface through which instrumented components can provide information and
notification.
WMI is microsoft's implementation of WBEM (Web Based Enterprise Management) and CIM
(Common Information Model) from the standards from the DMTF (Distributed Management Task
Force)

Q What is the purpose of WMI

The Purpose of WMI is to define a proprietary set of environment-independent specification
which allows management information to be shared between management applications.
Uses of WMI:
i) Hardware & Software inventory: WMI helps gather information about installed hardware
components (such as CPU, memory, Disk, etc) and software application.
ii) System Configuration: You can use WMI to query & configure system settings, security
policies, permissions & other parameters.
iii) Event Monitoring: WMI enables event-based monitoring, you can receive alerts when
specific event occurs, eg: (System Startup, logon, disk space threshold, etc.)
iv) Performance Monitoring: WMI provides performance counters and metrics for monitoring
system performance (CPU usage, memory utilization, network activity, etc.)
v) Registry files System data: WMI allows access to registry keys, values, and file system
information.
vi) Custom Management application: Developers can create custom management application
using WMI to automate tasks perform diagnostics and manage resources.

Note: WMI -> it is implemented as a service process within a shared service host (svchost). The
name of WMI service is Winmgmt. Depending on the setup, WMI Service may shut down or go
into low memory profile when no management application is being called by a management
application.

WMI Architecture

Management Apps:

Database App.
<-> ODBC
Web browser <-> ActiveX Controls
C/C++ APPS
(All connect to) -> WINDOWS MANAGEMENT API
COM / DCOM Interface

WMI infrastructure:

CIM repository <-> CIM Object Manager (CIMOM)

Providers:
SNMP Provider -> SNMP objects
Win32 Provider -> Win32 objects
Registry Provider -> Registry objects


WINMGMT -> Starts when the first management application or script makes a call to
connect to a WMI namespace.

WMI Consumers: WMI consumers and management applications, or scripts, interact with WMI
infrastructure by calling the WMI API (COM / DCOM). They can perform: i) querying ii)
enumerating data iii) Running provider methods etc.

WMI Infrastructure:
WMIPRVSE.EXE -> This is the provider host for WMI
WMI Infrastructure: It consists of various components.
1. WMI Core (CIM Object Manager): It is component of WBEM system, it manages CIM
objects, facilitates interaction between WBEM Client Applications; Manages CIM
repository; Performs security checks to authenticate users for WBEM Clients.
2. WMI Repository (CIM Repository): It is a language independent database of the
namespace, classes, objects instances within an enterprise environment, which are
stored in a static form.

3. COM (Component Object Model): It is a platform independent, distributed,
object-oriented system that creates a binary software components which can interact.
4. DCOM (Distributed Component Object Model): It is extension of COM, which helps
locate or interact with components/objects located on a different system, remote
computer or even on the internet.


Svchost.exe -> It is implemented as a service process within a shared service host
which can contain the WMI service (winmgmt)


WMI Provider:WMI Providers are intermediary between WMI Service & objects. WMI Providers starts as
a service name. WMIPRVSE.exe whenever a query is made.
This acts as a container and provides the requested information to the application/query.
Each time a query is made from a different source, a separate service is started as WMIPRVSE.
The default startup type of WMI service is Automatic.
WMI service depends on RPC.

Difference COM/DCOM

Com is a platform-independent, distributed, object-oriented system to create software
components in a binary standard which can interact.

COM basically functions as a translator and translates to binary standard.

Com defines how objects work over a distributed environment.

COM promotes reuse of software components from different vendors. A COM
application usually consists of an executable file and additional components such as dll
files.

Using COM differnt components interlocate locally with other components 


Dcom

It is an extension to COM . It allows access to software components or objects located on a differnt computer It is used to exchange information between remote computer or a  system located in lan or wan or even on internet.

restricted activation and restricted access are  by deafult given to administartors and are disabled for standard users

DCOM Has four aspects of security :

1. Acess security
2.Launch Security
3. Identify
4. Connectionpolicy

Namespace 

It is a programming object that defines the scope for a set of clases and instances .It is essentially a container or enviroment where WMI provider classers are defined and  managed. Namespaces are used to organise classes that represents differnt managed environment. Provies a hierarchical organisation  of classes.

A Namespace organizes information similar to folders in a filesystem. The top “folder” of the WMI namespace is always called “root”.

Default namespace : Root/Default

Root/CIMv2


WMI arbitartor 

WMI arbitrator is a component of WMI servivce that manages scheduling and execution of tasks received from WMI client process 

It resides in the WMISVChost.exe and is implemented as the following static singleton instance : Wbemcore! cwmiarbitrator ::m_Parb

The arbitartor track queries and incoming client requests as tasks of object type : Wbemcore!cwmittask().

Examples of some information tracked for these tasks include Client process id , Clilent computername , Last client activity, WQL text query  , Task submission etc.

Results returned by executing these tasks retrieved from WMI provider processes, are held directly in WINMGMT SVChost.exe heap memory until retrived by clients .

If the client does not spcify WBEM_FLAG_FORWARD_ONLY to indiacte a non rewindable or single direction enumerator , then the complete result set will reamin in WINMGMT heap memory for 20 minutes .

Event IP 5858 : WMI_Activity/Operational

Generated for cancellation of idle task.

* The 20 minutes max idle timeout can be overidden by the following DWORD registry value : HKLM\SOFTWARE\MICROSOFT\WBEM\CIMOM\Arbtask MaxIdle(Default = on 1200000ms)


WMI throttling 

WMI Arbitrator throttling is a forced thread sleep state that occurs when the total amount of tracked task memory (m_utotal Memoryusage) reaches the throttling limit (m_uSystemhigh)which defaults to 256MB.





